content/posts/digitaltransformation.md, before:

---
title: "Digital Transformation: Pricing and Positioning"
date: 2022-01-09T14:19:15-06:00
# weight: 1
# aliases: ["/first"]
tags: ["digital transformation", "price", "pricing", "position", "positioning"]
author: "Craig Fisk"
# author: ["Me", "You"] # multiple authors
showToc: true
TocOpen: false
draft: false
hidemeta: false
comments: false
description: "It's a brand new ballgame."
canonicalURL: "https://priceandposition.com/content/"
disableHLJS: true # to disable highlightjs
disableShare: false
disableHLJS: false
hideSummary: false
searchHidden: true
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
cover:
    image: "<image path/url>" # image path/url
    alt: "<alt text>" # alt text
    caption: "<text>" # display caption under cover
    relative: false # when using page bundles set this to true
    hidden: true # only hide on current single page
editPost:
    URL: "https://github.com/<path_to_repo>/content"
    Text: "Suggest Changes" # edit text
    appendFilePath: true # to append file path to Edit link
---

{{< figure src="/image/blogging_on_netlify.png" caption="Excited about digital transformation? What about price and position?." >}}

Commit message:

Added photos to homepage and the three initial posts; wrote drafts of 2 of the 3 posts.

content/posts/digitaltransformation.md, after:

---
title: "Digital Transformation: Pricing and Positioning"
date: 2022-01-16T14:19:15-06:00
# weight: 1
# aliases: ["/first"]
tags: ["digital transformation", "price", "pricing", "position", "positioning"]
author: "Craig Fisk"
# author: ["Me", "You"] # multiple authors
showToc: true
TocOpen: false
draft: false
hidemeta: false
comments: false
description: "It's a brand new ballgame."
canonicalURL: "https://priceandposition.com/content/"
disableHLJS: true # to disable highlightjs
disableShare: false
disableHLJS: false
hideSummary: false
searchHidden: true
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
cover:
    image: "<image path/url>" # image path/url
    alt: "<alt text>" # alt text
    caption: "<text>" # display caption under cover
    relative: false # when using page bundles set this to true
    hidden: true # only hide on current single page
editPost:
    URL: "https://github.com/<path_to_repo>/content"
    Text: "Suggest Changes" # edit text
    appendFilePath: true # to append file path to Edit link
---

{{< figure src="/image/blogging_on_netlify.png" caption="Excited about **digital transformation**? What about **price** and **position**?" >}}

Is there anything more basic in business than **price** and **position**? Digital transformation changes how your customer's perception of *how you price* (as well as your price). It also changes your market positioning. 

A company may well launch into digital transformation in order to deal with supply chain problems and to reduce costs. But it would be best to start on the value side by evaluating price and position, because that is always going to be at the core of any digital transformation.

So how does the mainstream writing on pricing and positioning deal with digital transformation?

The three classic works on pricing only marginally deal with digital transformation.

Madhavan Ramanujam's ["Monetizing Innovation"](https://www.amazon.com/Monetizing-Innovation-Companies-Design-Product-ebook/dp/B01F4DYY1I/ref=pd_sbs_4/140-1375818-0814438?pd_rd_w=wOS5s&pf_rd_p=690958f6-2825-419e-9c16-73ffd4055b65&pf_rd_r=SRXWHWD2W4P6DBW0XJ6C&pd_rd_r=3b11a6eb-bf55-4436-a3be-5453e75f521a&pd_rd_wg=HLBoX&pd_rd_i=B01F4DYY1I&psc=1). Based on experience with 150+ projects for pricing consultancy Simon-Kucher, Ramanujam advocates putting pricing before everything else: "....the root of all innovation evil is the failure to put the customer’s willingness to pay [WTP] for a new product at the very core of product design." ["It's Price Before Product. Period"](https://review.firstround.com/its-price-before-product-period). This is an important point (72% of innovations fail to monetize) but doesn't directly address the impact of digital transformation.

Thomas A. Nagle's ["The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing, 6th edition](https://www.amazon.com/Strategy-Tactics-Pricing-growing-profitably-dp-1138737518/dp/1138737518/ref=mt_other?_encoding=UTF8&me=&qid=) really started the whole approach of looking for differentiation and value-based pricing. Nagle developed his ideas especially through industrial products, far removed from retail and end-customer markets. Alhtough Nagle touches to some extent upon digital transformation, the core ideas of The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing are pre-digtal.

Hermann Simon, founder of the leading pricing consultancy Simon-Kucher explains ["Why Pricing is Not Primarily About Price"](https://www.monkhouseandcompany.com/podcast/why-pricing-is-not-primarily-about-price/), points out that differentiation and value come before price. Simon's classic ["Pricing in the Digital Age"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHT3bI3UkV8) does address some of the key innovations in pricing that come with digital products, although Simon does not directly address digital transformation.

On the positioning side, the mainstream writing again is not really focused on digital transformation.

There is a lot to be learned, for example, from 
April Dunford's ["Obviously Awesome: How to Nail Product Positioning so Customers Get it, Buy it, Love it"](https://www.amazon.com/Obviously-Awesome-Product-Positioning-Customers-ebook/dp/B07PPW5V9C/ref=pd_sbs_1/140-1375818-0814438?pd_rd_w=Tgts9&pf_rd_p=690958f6-2825-419e-9c16-73ffd4055b65&pf_rd_r=0ZX606GWWASKM6278BYQ&pd_rd_r=5a857157-a13f-44dc-8e78-c38cc42b1df4&pd_rd_wg=MCIb1&pd_rd_i=B07PPW5V9C&psc=1). It takes off from experience determining positioning for new product from both large and startup enterprise software companies. In each case, it starts by looking at who else is in the market and how customers will perceive positioning relative to that. The  perspective, however, is really positioning of new products, rather than the impact of digital transformation on positioning entire business.

The classic writing on positioning, of course, is the Al Ries and Jack Trout's [Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind](https://www.amazon.com/Positioning-Battle-Your-Al-Ries/dp/0071373586/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=). Again, it's great writing -- especially great anecdotes on positioning -- but largely pre-digital.

The consultancies are the ones that have been really dealing with digital transformation head on. This means McKinsey, Bain, EY, Deloitte, PwC, and also the software-oriented consultancies, such as AIM Computing and Slalom Consulting.
